{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1348\cocoasubrtf170
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww12200\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural

\f0\fs24 \cf0 CochlearNerveFHModel\
Computational model of a spiral ganglion cell in the cochlear nerve using Frankenhaeuser-Huxley kinetics and a social cable model to simulate the effects of demyelination and dendrite degradation on cochlear neurons in humans.\
\
Authors: Lauren Heckelman, Matthew McCann, and Michelle Mueller.\
\
This code relies on the FH mechanism written by Michael Hines, which describes the FH equation given in the original Frankenhaeuser-Huxley paper. A coaxial cable model of the neuron was built referencing code from McIntyre et al. (2002). Also referenced is the extracellular_sample.hoc code distributed by Leo Medina. Spiral ganglion cell membrane parameters taken from Frijns, et al. (1995), and Cartee (2006).\
\
The original code by Hines replicates Figures 1, 3, and 6 in the original Frankenhaeuser-Huxley paper.\
The original code by McIntyre replicated Figure 2 of the corresponding paper.\
\
References:\
\
[1] Frankenhaeuser, B. and Huxley, A. F. (1964)\
The action potential in the myelinated nerve fibre of Xenoupus Laevis as computed\
on the basis of voltage clamp data.\
J. Physiol. 171: 302-315\
\
[2] Hines, Michael. Xenopus Myelinated Neuron (Frankenhaeuser, Huxley 1964). From http://senselab.med.yale.edu/ModelDB/showModel.cshtml?model=3507\
\
[3] Frijns, J.H.M, de Snoo, S.L., and Schoonhoven, R. (1995) Potential distributions and neural excitation patterns in a rotationally symmetric model of the electrically stimulated cochlea. Hearing Research 87: 170-186\
\
[4] Cartee, Lianne, A. (2006). Spiral ganglion cell site of excitation II: Numerical model analysis. Hearing Research 215: 22\'9630\
\
[5] McIntyre CC, Richardson AG, and Grill WM. Modeling the excitability of mammalian nerve fibers: influence of afterpotentials on the recovery cycle. Journal of Neurophysiology 87:995-1006, 2002.\
https://senselab.med.yale.edu/modeldb/showModel.cshtml?model=3810\
}